---
setup: |
    import InterviewName from '/src/components/InterviewName.astro'
title: Jonathan Hochman
slug: jonathan-hochman

description: <p>Jonathan Hochman is a lead consultant for <a title="Hochman Consultants" href="http://www.hochmanconsultants.com/">Hochman Consultants</a>.  Launched in 2004, Hochman Consultants specializes in internet marketing, search engine optimization, and pay-per-click advertising.  Jonathan graduated from Yale University with two degrees in computer science.  He is a Qualified Google Advertising Professional, Yahoo! Search Marketing Ambassador, and Microsoft adExcellence Member.</p>

mediumdescription: <p>Jonathan Hochman is a lead consultant for <a href="http://www.hochmanconsultants.com/" title="Hochman Consultants">Hochman Consultants</a>.  Launched in 2004, Hochman Consultants specializes in internet marketing, search engine optimization, and pay-per-click advertising.  Jonathan graduated from Yale University with two degrees in computer science.  He is a Qualified Google Advertising Professional, Yahoo! Search Marketing Ambassador, and Microsoft adExcellence Member.  His speaking experience includes the Web 2.0 Summit, Search Marketing Expo, and Search Engine Strategies.  His industry organization memberships include Search Engine Marketing Professionals Organization (SEMPO), Search Engine Marketing New England (SEMNE), and Organization of Independent Software Vendors (OISV).</p><p>In 1990, Jonathan set up a consulting practice in New York City focusing on international business development.  In 1994, he set up a website helping Russians buy products from the United States, Japan, and Europe.  Throughout the 1990s, he represented Russian clients in both import and export transactions while also building website for clients including <a href="http://www.barcoding.com/" title="Barcoding, Inc.">Barcoding, Inc.</a> in 1998.  After working on side projects for a few years, he returned Barcoding, Inc. in 2003 to assist with online marketing.  Rather than relocating to Baltimore, he remained in Hartford and started a consulting company with Barcode, Inc. as his first customer.  About this time, he met <a href="http://www.thehistoryofseo.com/seo-interviews/jill-whalen/" title="Jill Whalen">Jill Whalen</a> and became more interested in search engine optimization.</p><p>He recommends that if you are new to SEO, use Google as your friend to find information.  He recommends the book <a href="http://www.amazon.com/Search-Engine-Marketing-Inc-Companys/dp/0136068685/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8&amp;s=books&amp;qid=1228775780&amp;sr=1-1" title="Search Engine Marketing, Inc.">Search Engine Marketing, Inc.</a> by Bill Hunt and conferences like those provided by <a href="http://searchmarketingexpo.com/" title="SMX">SMX</a>.  Also, he encourages all to keep a dialogue with your peers in the industry for advice while working hard. </p>

sortorder: 10
featuredsort: 0
thumbnail: jonathan-hochman-small.jpg
summaryMetaDescription: A summary of the interview with Jonathan Hochman by Mark Knowles for The History of SEO Website.
summaryMetaKeywords: The History of SEO, History of SEO, Search Engine Marketing, Search Engine Optimization, Search Engine, Engine Marketing, Search, Marketing, Article Options, Hochman Consultants, Engine Optimization, Search Marketing, Jonathan Hochman, Mark Knowles, Engine, Industry, Jonathan, Hochman, SEO, Consultants, Optimization, Website, Consultants, Optimization, Advertisements, Barcoding, Summary, Interview
metaDescription: Interview with Jonathan Hochman by Mark Knowles for The History of SEO website.
metaKeywords: The History of SEO, Set Up a Website, History of SEO, Search Engine Optimization, Search Engine Marketing, Search Engine, Article Options, Engine Optimization, Engine Marketing, Jonathan Hochman, Mark Knowles, Mark, Jonathan, Search, Website, Engine, SEO, Traffic, Links, Marketing, Industry, Websites, HTML, SMX, Optimization, Keywords, Barcoding, Rankings, SES, Interview
---

<p><InterviewName fullName="Mark Knowles" />We’re sitting here at SMX East with Jonathan Hochman. We just wanted to talk to you, my name is Mark Knowles with The History of SEO, and we just wanted to talk to you a little bit about your beginnings. If we could rewind, dates, names, and places is great. But go back to the very thing you were doing just before you got into SEO and walk us through how that introduction took place. </p>
<p><InterviewName fullName="Jonathan Hochman" />Back in the early 90’s the Berlin Wall came down and one of the hot business areas, and I was in New York at the time, was to do some business with Russia. So I had to set up a consulting company; I was helping some Russians buy products from the United Sates, from Japan, from Europe, shipping things to Russia like photo copiers and fax machines. So anyway, we put together a website back in 1994. We ran a T1 line into our office; we had a server underneath the CTO’s desk…</p>
<p><InterviewName fullName="Mark Knowles" />(Laughs)</p>
<p><InterviewName fullName="Jonathan Hochman" />…it was a Dec Alfa. Pretty good machine; a lot of IO capacity. We had our web server running there and we ended up ranking pretty well for terms related to Russia and business, so we were getting tons and tons of traffic. Of course we had no real conversion and no real plan to do something and monetize that traffic, and that was really our mistake I think, and also a herald of things to come during the .com bubble, which developed in the late 90’s. </p>
<p><InterviewName fullName="Mark Knowles" />Wow, do you happen to remember what year that was?</p>
<p><InterviewName fullName="Jonathan Hochman" />It was ’94 or ’95 when we were doing that. My friend Scott Blankstein set up a website called Web100.com, which listed the top 100 best websites. At the time he had been in graduate school before he came to the company, and at one point he had actually visited every single website on the internet, back when there were only like 24 websites. </p>
<p><InterviewName fullName="Mark Knowles" />(Laughs)</p>
<p><InterviewName fullName="Jonathan Hochman" />Scott also created a little utility called the Flat Tax Calculator, Senator Dick Armey had this idea to implement a flat tax, so Scott built a little thing that would show when you would type in your income levels it would tell you how much tax you would pay on the new proposal. One day Howard Stern mentioned this thing on his radio show and we just watched this traffic search that has been unequalled since then. We were normally getting hundreds of visitors a day, and suddenly we were having tens of thousands of visitors. It was an eye opener, to say the least. Too bad we didn’t have any method of monetizing that. I’m sure it accumulated a lot of links at the time, that old website; I wonder where it is now.</p>
<p><InterviewName fullName="Mark Knowles" />So how did you go from observing these huge traffic surges to the world of search engine optimization? If we go back to that Russian site for example, or maybe that’s not the one, but when did you first start getting into laying out a site that does that?</p>
<p><InterviewName fullName="Jonathan Hochman" />I had another friend who in ’98 set up a website to market bar code scanners. He started out in a little closet office with two people. That business Barcoding Inc. became very successful. I was doing other businesses at the time; I kind of helped him start that and then I went off working on other things. Around 2003 I came back to him and became more actively involved in the marketing of that company, which had grown to fifteen employees at the time; they’re now a hundred. I worked there for a while really getting back into search marketing, because I had been out of circulation for several years. They were down in Baltimore and I was in Hartford and eventually it was a choice of either relocating or not, so I decided not to relocate and just to create a consulting firm and they were my first client.</p>
<p><InterviewName fullName="Mark Knowles" />So did it start off with title tags, and you noticed those pages ranking better? </p>
<p><InterviewName fullName="Jonathan Hochman" />There definitely was a lot of working on content, both meta data and content, just to make it relevant and to focus more on what people wanted. And those methods that we were using then still work today. Even the first website I built back in 1994. The homepage was like an outline with links. It was a multi-level outline with links to all the pages in the site. It wasn’t very glamorous but it was a very effective hierarchy for organizing the information and showing people how to get what they wanted and coincidentally it used a lot of keywords, not because we were thinking about keywords, but just because they were the natural words to use. Those pages all did well; they ranked well. We always got comments back saying the site was informative and had a lot of unique and original information. So these things that worked in the 90’s, and worked earlier this decade, still work today. In that regard, I haven’t seen huge changes in how we do things.</p>
<p><InterviewName fullName="Mark Knowles" />When did you first become aware of Search Engine Strategies, or any kind of industry forming where you could meet with colleagues?</p>
<p><InterviewName fullName="Jonathan Hochman" />Well, when I was working with Barcoding Inc., really probably around 2003, I started looking into this more seriously as far as, “How do we get these rankings?” So inevitably at that time whenever you searched for something you’d get a thread at one of these forums, quite often High Rankings forum. So the first person I met in the industry was Jill Whalen. That’s how I became more interested in search engine optimization. </p>
<p><InterviewName fullName="Mark Knowles" />And are you still working with those guys today, or how many people are in your firm today?</p>
<p><InterviewName fullName="Jonathan Hochman" />It’s hard for me to count because I work mainly with contractors, so I have let’s say seven developers, a couple partners, and a few other people who help us with content sometimes. So it’s an organization of maybe ten or fifteen people in total. But yes, I do still keep in close touch with the people I met in the early days, and I really appreciate the help that they provided me in getting going.</p>
<p><InterviewName fullName="Mark Knowles" />So how do you go about training or learning when obstacles show up and ideas don’t work? I’m targeting this question towards the new folks that are just now learning about this and they’re trying to figure out how to get started.</p>
<p><InterviewName fullName="Jonathan Hochman" />Well, Google is your friend. If you have a question you go to Google and ask and usually it will take you to a page that’s informative and within one or two steps get you to what you need. Especially within the SEO world, the pages that are authoritative will tend to rank well. I know some of the articles I’ve written that have ranked first for their target terms; they’re considered to be the definitive piece of information on that particular niche subject. So you can use Google to get whatever you need to know.</p>
<p><InterviewName fullName="Mark Knowles" />I’ve used that same technique myself and I’ve been at it a little while longer so I can discern good information from potential misinformation. But I’ve often wondered about the new person starting out with that method, only trying to figure out, “Always do this,” or “Never do that.”</p>
<p><InterviewName fullName="Jonathan Hochman" />So those are two good words to avoid, “always” and “never,” because usually the right answer is “It depends,” but you do have to be a discerning consumer of information and I don’t know that there is really a way to wash that problem away. You always have to be careful of what you believe and what you pay attention to. I would say that what you want to do is look around at different sources of information and see where there is a consensus, and see who is kind of going out on a limb.</p>
<p><InterviewName fullName="Mark Knowles" />Do you know of any good books that you’ve read or heard about?</p>
<p><InterviewName fullName="Jonathan Hochman" />Well, Bill Hunt wrote a book, <span style="text-decoration: underline">Search Engine Marketing, Inc.</span> It is considered to be the most reliable book on the field right now. Otherwise, there are plenty of good websites; SearchEngineLand.com is a great place to start.</p>
<p><InterviewName fullName="Mark Knowles" />What do you think about conferences for someone from a learning experience perspective?</p>
<p><InterviewName fullName="Jonathan Hochman" />I really like the SMX conferences. I used to go to SES. I still go to SES sometimes. I’m up in New England so I go to all the SEMNE events, which is Search Engine Marketing New England, which is sort of like a mini local version of the big national conference. And I know that there are similar local groups in Dallas and Portland; I don’t know about any others, but those two cities have some. </p>
<p><InterviewName fullName="Mark Knowles" />Find a group nearby if you’re not on the east coast. </p>
<p><InterviewName fullName="Jonathan Hochman" />Find a group or organize a group. Get together with your peers and talk about it. I think that talking with people in person in very valuable.</p>
<p><InterviewName fullName="Mark Knowles" />Excellent. Do you have any other favorite little tips or tricks to help someone get started?</p>
<p><InterviewName fullName="Jonathan Hochman" />Well, it’s really just about paying your dues and putting in the hard work. There’s no real short cut other than to learn and to listen and don’t over promise your clients. Tell them the way things are. Say you may not know everything but you know people who can help you and you’ve got to do your best for them, and if you’re not sure of how to do something, you’ll go out and get advice; you’re not too proud to ask for help.</p>
<p><InterviewName fullName="Mark Knowles" />Alright. Thank you very much. I appreciate your time.</p>
<p><InterviewName fullName="Jonathan Hochman" />Thank you.</p>